README.md, before:

# How to use this image

## start a Firefox instance

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```

The flag `--shm-size=2g` sets 2GB as the size of `/dev/shm` available to the container.
By default Docker will set it to 64MB, leading to frequent crashes of Firefox.
Further detail on this issue can be found [here](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1338771#c10)

## audio support

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    --group-add=29 \
    --device /dev/snd \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY \
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```

The flag `--device /dev/snd` adds your host sound device to the container.
Permissions to access `/dev/snd` are usually granted to the root user or members of the `audio` group on your system.
This container runs by default as the unpriviledged user `firefox` with uid `1000`. This is why we need to add the user to the `audio` group, with the same GID as your host `audio` group.

The flag `--group-add` assigns the correct `audio` GID from your specific host to the `firefox` user inside the container.
By default Alpine Linux sets `18` as the audio GID (`audio:x:18:`) but this value is usually different on your host.
Using `--group-add` allows you to take care of these differences and run your container with the right permissions on `/dev/snd`.

You can find the `audio` GID specific to your host by inspecting the `/etc/group` file.
For instance:

```sh
awk -F\: '/audio/{print $3}' /etc/group
```

### Change the default sound device

By default the container uses the sound card with id 0. To change this behaviour you can pass it a custom `.asoundrc` file on run.

For instance, you can create a file named `.asoundrc` with the following content:

```
defaults.ctl.card 1
defaults.pcm.card 1
```

then pass it to the container as a volume like this:

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    --group-add=29 \
    --device /dev/snd \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY \
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    -v $HOME/.asoundrc:/home/firefox/.asoundrc \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```

## start with persistent storage

1. Create a data directory on a suitable volume on your host system, e.g. `/my/own/mozilla` and `/my/own/downloads`

2. Start your `firefox` container like this:

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    --group-add=29 \
    --device /dev/snd \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY \
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    -v /my/own/mozilla:/home/firefox/.mozilla \
    -v /my/own/downloads:/home/firefox/Downloads \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```

Commit message:

adding documentation for gpu device sharing

README.md, after:

# How to use this image

## Start a Firefox instance

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```

The flag `--shm-size=2g` sets 2GB as the size of `/dev/shm` available to the container.
By default Docker will set it to 64MB, leading to frequent crashes of Firefox.
Further detail on this issue can be found [here](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1338771#c10)

## Audio support

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    --group-add=29 \
    --device /dev/snd \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY \
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```

The flag `--device /dev/snd` adds your host sound device to the container.
Permissions to access `/dev/snd` are usually granted to the root user or members of the `audio` group on your system.
This container runs by default as the unpriviledged user `firefox` with uid `1000`. This is why we need to add the user to the `audio` group, with the same GID as your host `audio` group.

The flag `--group-add` assigns the correct `audio` GID from your specific host to the `firefox` user inside the container.
By default Alpine Linux sets `18` as the audio GID (`audio:x:18:`) but this value is usually different on your host.
Using `--group-add` allows you to take care of these differences and run your container with the right permissions on `/dev/snd`.

You can find the `audio` GID specific to your host by inspecting the `/etc/group` file.
For instance:

```sh
awk -F\: '/audio/{print $3}' /etc/group
```

### Change the default sound device

By default the container uses the sound card with id 0. To change this behaviour you can pass it a custom `.asoundrc` file on run.

For instance, you can create a file named `.asoundrc` with the following content:

```
defaults.ctl.card 1
defaults.pcm.card 1
```

then pass it to the container as a volume like this:

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    --group-add=29 \
    --device /dev/snd \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY \
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    -v $HOME/.asoundrc:/home/firefox/.asoundrc \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```

## Hardware acceleration with mesa

The new image version `cremuzzi/firefox:68.8.0` comes with mesa drivers for intel graphics cards, **mesa-dri-intel**.
This solves the WebGL issue from the previous versions of this image.

To allow hardware acceleration in your dockerized firefox just share /dev/dri with your container with the `--device /dev/dri` run option.

## Start with persistent storage

1. Create a data directory on a suitable volume on your host system, e.g. `/my/own/mozilla` and `/my/own/downloads`

2. Start your `firefox` container like this:

```sh
docker run --name firefox \
    --network host \
    --shm-size=2g \
    --group-add=29 \
    --device /dev/snd \
    -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY \
    -v $HOME/.Xauthority:/home/firefox/.Xauthority \
    -v /my/own/mozilla:/home/firefox/.mozilla \
    -v /my/own/downloads:/home/firefox/Downloads \
    cremuzzi/firefox
```
